# Welcome to the Youtube Analytics API

## Check out the final report
Tableau (dynamic, recommended): https://public.tableau.com/views/ConceptNewEraAnalytics/FullAnalyis?:language=en-US&publish=yes&:display_count=n&:origin=viz_share_link
PDF (not dynamic, not recommended) : Concept_New_Era_Analysis.pdf found above

## Abstract
This program is for any youtuber who wishes to get targeted, specific information about their youtube channel. The progam is able to aggregate data for tons of metrics that the youtube creator studio is not able to aggregate from its reports. The program will ask the user if they wish to get information on the lengh of the time the channel has been up or specific dates they wish to analyze. In addition it will ask for specific countries, provinces, continents, or subcontinents that the user wishes to filter results on. The user simply needs a google console account and project dedicated to using the Youtube Analytics Api as well as the Youtube Data Api with a secret.json file as the OAuth file given through correct setup of the credentials and an API Key from the youtube Data api. With this, the user just needs python on their computer to get all the data they wish. 

## Methodology
To use the code, clone the repo to a desired location on their computer. Running the program will save the data gathered into directories and subdirectories within the folder where the main.py file is saved into. The program then runs and asks for the Youtube Data Api key where it gets information on the channel name, number of videos, date of inception of the channel, and video/playlist ids. With authentication from the popup google browser and correct input of the authentication code for your youtube channel, the following information is then passed into the various different files to get information on activition, audience retention, basic stats, device and operating system information, playback details, top videos/playlists, traffic, user activity/demographics all by location within and outside of the US. The data returned will be saved into corresponding csv/excel files in the data folder that will be created when running the function. The excel files have then been uploaded to Sql server where you can see the t-sql queries in the cne_queries.sql file above. These queries were used to derive smaller tables that have been loaded into tableau to create dashboards of the information gathered from the API. The final report is linked above.

## Warnings
The program does not store your API KEY, nor does it store or read the contents of the secrets.json file that is required for authentication. The program does add folders to your local system in which data gathered will be stored. If you wish to use the program, just know that it is up to you to ensure the main.py file is in a location you wish to run it. The program takes around 2hrs 30 minutes to run for a youtube channel that is 1 year 2 months old(September 2, 2020) that has 60 videos. Thus the program may take a while to run if you set the time period for analysis to be all time rather than a smaller period of time to use the targetted query. Plan useage accordingly. The only error that may harm your program is a rare occurance of a youtube server error not being able to return the data. 

## Thank you for checking my project out!
